As the technology industry has grown,
so too has the size,
scale, and speed of our data.
In parallel, business users are increasingly
demanding quicker and quicker access to insights from this data.
The competing pressures of these issues
has led to a renaissance in data storage solutions.
One of the key innovations over the past decade in computing has been
the emergence of log-structured storage as a primary means of storing data.
Distinct log-structured storage solutions were
built to leverage the benefits of stream processing,
event-driven architectures, and append-only logs.
Common characteristics of all log-structured storage systems
are that they simply append data to log files on disk.
These log files may store data indefinitely for a specific time period,
or until a specific size is reached.
There are typically many log files on disk,
and these log files are merged and compacted occasionally.
When a log file is merged,
it means that two or more log files are joined together into one output log file.
When a log file is compacted,
it means that the data from one or more files is deleted.
Deletion is typically determined by the age of the record.
The oldest records are removed while the newest stay.
We'll cover log compaction and management in depth in the next lesson.
Why do these systems use many log files instead of one?
If there were only one log file,
the speed of the streaming data stores will be limited to
the I/O speed of reading a single file off of disk.